OFCS is not a currency system, in that there are no anonymous units of
symbolic value that can be exchanged. Debits and credits are applied
directly on accounts of individuals or commodities themselves. Credits
and debits cannot be transferred from one account to
another.

There cannot be cash in this system because every credit or debit is a
record of a unique event and thus cannot be exchanged for substituted
for another. Cash as such may be replaced by documentation, or
receipts when a physical representation is needed, but are not in
themselves to be considered of any value or negotiable.

An OFCS account can be opened under any name. Biometrics and other
physical keys will ensure identity security. All records can be
audited, though personal information will be kept secret and can
actually be omitted. Individuals can create as many accounts as they
wish in the system.

All debits and credits created or negated can be audited, even credits
and debits that have been negated from being spent or fulfilled,
respectively.

A redundant, encrypted and distributed file system ensures that the
OFCS can survive the loss of several nodes and is invulnerable to
malicious attack.

Each credit or debit has a unique record of evidence such as video
built into it as a matter of verification. Additionally, a third party
must verify the credit or debit creation. All data is heavily
encrypted and keyed to identifiers such as time or geolocation.

The underlying OFCS can be utilized for a variety of purposes, so that
multiple independent exchange systems can be created. Any number of
social and communication tools can be used to facilitate the function
and particular rule-set of each system.

Each syndicate should at its heart have a common idea for what should
be the basis for credit: labor-time, energy, power, karma, trust, or
widgets, etc. Any basis for credit must be absolute and normative,
because the system does not allow for interest, depreciation, or other
such trappings of subjective currency.

Syndicate membership and self-government. The Syndicate must decide
how it will govern itself, whether that be by direct democracy,
elected delegates, designated individuals, or even by total
automation.

The purpose and principles of the syndicate must be clear, otherwise
there will be no guidelines when it comes to creating the rule-set.

Each syndicate will have choices to make in implementing a
rule-set. Though the underlying system is inflexible, there are
certain behaviors and matters of policy that will be hard-wired but
revisable. Some of these will be ad-hoc rules, such as crediting
certain professions or activities at a different rate than others.

The rule-set must be tested in simulation by either role-playing or
using gaming simulations.

Revisions must be made to the rule-set that satisfy both the
syndicate's principles and utilitarian concerns. The procedure for
revisions shall be determined by each syndicate.

The system applies the custom rule-set in all transactions such that
all transactions are quick and conveniently executed.

All disputes or errors will be reported to the appropriate regulating
syndicate and dealt with in their particular ways.

The syndicate is entrusted to continually be improving its own
rule-set and relations with other credit syndicates, as well as
providing services to its constituents.

When a credit syndicate becomes untenable, unstable, or inactive due
to neglect, it may be necessary to dissolve the syndicate. Dissolution
itself is not complex, but a process for distribution and transference
of all indebted goods must be laid out beforehand to prevent disputes.

If two syndicates wish to merge their economies, there are several
options: they can either keep their separate credit unit systems,
create a new system from scratch, or transfer all of one credit system
into the other.

Automated checks of individual accounts can occur continuously,
adjusting for variable rates in the market. For example, GHG
sequestering may vary in labor costs, which will dynamically affect
the balance of an individual who has GHG emissions tallied in their
debits.

Rules can be set for deficit spending. For example, it could be that
syndics may only accrue twi number, and records are viewable by any
member of the syndicate, but no personally identifiable details are
available.

All users, including all personally identifiable details are available
to all other members of the syndicate.

All value is quantified in a single unit system. This precludes
dynamic pricing.

All debits and credits include multiple values, such as carbon
emissions, labor time, and energy.

For every debit, a credit must be generated, and vice versa. This
precludes any “free” services.

This allows labor to be credited without attaching a debit to any
object or person. Debited objects may also remain uncompensated-for,
and people can accumulate debit without a corresponding credit being
generated.
